README.md, before:

# viper-baseboard
Baseboard requirements and hardware design for Viper quadcopter.

The **Viper Baseboard** serves as an adapter board between an Arduino MKR Vidor 4000 and various sensors and actuators in order to implement a flight controller for a quadcopter UAV.

![Block Diagramm](viper-baseboard-block-diagram.png)

## Requirements
### Functional
#### Rotational/Translational Stabilisation
The quadcopter should be able to stabilise itself against external disturbances concerning its orientation and position with respect to a given setpoint. For determining the current orientation of the quadcopter a suitable Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) with a suitable sensor fusion algorithm shall be used. For determining translational stabilisation a optical flow sensor consisting of a downward facing camera in combination with a suitable optical flow sensor algorithm shall be used.

#### WiFi based Control/Configuration
The quadcopter shall provide a WiFi access point to which a WiFi capable device can connect. Once a WiFi connection is established the quadcopter can be controlled via commands exchanged between quadcopter and device via a network socket. A webserver will run on the quadcopter which allows the user to configure and tweak certain aspects of the quadcopter configuration (e.g. control parameters) or read out quadcopter status.

#### Automonous Landing
The quadcopter should be able to land without user control. Therefore one or more suitable sensors shall be used to determine the distance between quadcopter and ground. One suitable sensor would be the VL53L0X ToF Sensor allows a measurement range of up to 2 m with a resolution of 1 mm.

### Electrical
#### Input voltage
9 - 18.5 V like Zubax Orel 20.

#### Connectors
##### battery / input
##### CAN
##### I2C

### Mechanical
#### enclosure
no enclosure planed.

#### mounting
There should be mounting holes to mount the baseboard on the Armattan F1-4B 3MM frame https://www.armattanquads.com/f1-4b-3mm/

### environmental
#### temperature
commercial temperature range should be OK. But parts with industrial range are preferred because of higher reliability.

#### shock/vibration
care should be taken because of higher vibration on copter. so no high parts like electrolytic capacitors

Commit message:

added comments on power planes, protection and weight

README.md, after:

# viper-baseboard
Baseboard requirements and hardware design for Viper quadcopter.

The **Viper Baseboard** serves as an adapter board between an Arduino MKR Vidor 4000 and various sensors and actuators in order to implement a flight controller for a quadcopter UAV.

![Block Diagramm](viper-baseboard-block-diagram.png)

## Requirements
### Functional
#### Rotational/Translational Stabilisation
The quadcopter should be able to stabilise itself against external disturbances concerning its orientation and position with respect to a given setpoint. For determining the current orientation of the quadcopter a suitable Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) with a suitable sensor fusion algorithm shall be used. For determining translational stabilisation a optical flow sensor consisting of a downward facing camera in combination with a suitable optical flow sensor algorithm shall be used.

#### WiFi based Control/Configuration
The quadcopter shall provide a WiFi access point to which a WiFi capable device can connect. Once a WiFi connection is established the quadcopter can be controlled via commands exchanged between quadcopter and device via a network socket. A webserver will run on the quadcopter which allows the user to configure and tweak certain aspects of the quadcopter configuration (e.g. control parameters) or read out quadcopter status.

#### Automonous Landing
The quadcopter should be able to land without user control. Therefore one or more suitable sensors shall be used to determine the distance between quadcopter and ground. One suitable sensor would be the VL53L0X ToF Sensor allows a measurement range of up to 2 m with a resolution of 1 mm.

### Electrical
#### Input voltage
9 - 18.5 V like Zubax Orel 20.

#### protection
Input voltage should be protected by a TVS diode against voltage spikes from the motors.
There is no fuse because the motor drivers can draw excessive currents. Then a fuse is useless because it should have a very high current rating and then it can'tprotect very much. Additionally the fuse would add additional weight and empose a risk of failure during flight.

#### Power planes and distribution
##### Input voltage
to motor drivers and input for voltage regulators.
Current: 20 to 30 A

##### 5V
Input for Arduino because the Arduino doesn't like to be directly fed with 3.3V.
generated on by a switching regulator.
Current: 500 mA + Current for 3.3V devices

##### 3.3V
for sensors and camera module
generated by the onboard regulator of the Arduino
Current: up to 100 mA, should be OK for the onboard regulator

#### Connectors
##### battery / input
##### CAN
##### I2C

### Mechanical
#### enclosure
no enclosure planed.

#### mounting
There should be mounting holes to mount the baseboard on the Armattan F1-4B 3MM frame https://www.armattanquads.com/f1-4b-3mm/

#### weight
The weight should be as low as possible to get better flight performance

### environmental
#### temperature
commercial temperature range should be OK. But parts with industrial range are preferred because of higher reliability.

#### shock/vibration
care should be taken because of higher vibration on copter. so no high parts like electrolytic capacitors
